Kubeflow Roadmap update - with 1.5 details (#6266)
kubeflow/kubeflow: ROADMAP.md

# Kubeflow Roadmap

## Kubeflow 1.5 Release, Due: March 2022
* Kubeflow 1.5 [milestones and timeline](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/pull/538)

### Themes
* Switching to [Emissary executor](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/pipelines/installation/choose-executor/#emissary-executor) enables Kubeflow Pipelines deployment on Kubernetes >= v1.20, which runs on containerd runtime instead of Docker runtime

> * Improve model accuracy and reduce overfitting, especially with hyper parameter tuning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve model accuracy and reduce overfitting, especially with hyperparameter tuning
```

* Simplify operations and optimize utilization (including spot instance use cases for distributed training) 
* More consistent user experience - UI appearance, features and naming
* Improved documentation, tutorials and examples
* Stretch - Support for K8s 1.22 and associated dependencies (cert mgr, istio)

### Major Features from each Working Group (note: Individual WG versions are independent of Kubeflow's)

#### Kubeflow Pipelines, v1.8
* Switching to [Emissary executor](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/pipelines/installation/choose-executor/#emissary-executor) enables Kubeflow Pipelines deployment on Kubernetes >= v1.20, which runs on containerd runtime instead of Docker runtime.

#### Katib, v0.13 

> * Hyperparameter leader election for HA operations and faster recovery

Reviewer: I think we should mention controller here. WDYT @tenzen-y @johnugeorge ?
```suggestion
* Katib controller leader election for HA operations and faster recovery
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think so too.

> * Validation for Early Stopping algorithm settings improves accuracy, reduces overfitting

Reviewer: Should we modify this @jbottum @tenzen-y @johnugeorge ?
```suggestion
* Validation for Early Stopping algorithm settings helps users to proper reduce model overfitting
```

Reviewer 2: It sounds great to me @andreyvelich!

Author: @andreyvelich do we need the word "proper"

Reviewer: @jbottum Basically, validation helps to avoid user's errors and mistakes in APIs when they use Early Stopping.
That is why I was thinking about this change.

Author: @jbottum understand but I am not sure this correct - helps users to **proper** reduce model overfitting....shouldn't it read...helps users to reduce model overfitting ?

Author: @andreyvelich I put this in another commit lower down, need to move this forward.

* Improve SDK, AWS CI, parameter settings across frameworks (goptuna, optuna, hyperopt) 

> * Updated metrics (note - breaking change)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Update namespace label for Metrics Collector injection (note - breaking change)
```

# Kubeflow Roadmap

## Kubeflow 1.5 Release, Due: February 2022
* Kubeflow 1.5 [milestones and timeline](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/pull/538)

### Themes
* Increase ML pipeline functionality with aggregation and passing of parameters and artifacts between pipeline components
* Improve model accuracy and reduce overfitting, especially with hyper parameter tuning
* Simplify operations and optimize utilization (including spot instance use cases for distributed training) 
* More consistent user experience - UI appearance, features and naming
* Improved documentation, tutorials and examples
* Stretch - Support for K8s 1.22 and associated dependencies (cert mgr, istio)

> 

Author: @nakfour I like this idea.    It might be too much detail for this roadmap update, but if you feel strongly I will add it.  @kimwnasptd we should consider this in the Release team.

> 

Reviewer 3: Will create an issue to track the K8s 1.22 version and for what's pending for each WG, as part of the KF 1.5 release https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/issues/2112#issuecomment-1024642329

### Major Features from each Working Group (note: Individual WG versions are independent of Kubeflow's)

#### Kubeflow Pipelines, v1.8

> * [Emissary executor](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/pipelines/installation/choose-executor/#emissary-executor) is default rather than Docker runtime

Reviewer 4: Switching to [Emissary executor](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/pipelines/installation/choose-executor/#emissary-executor) enables Kubeflow Pipelines deployment on Kubernetes >= v1.20, which runs on containerd runtime instead of Docker runtime.

* Advanced features in [KFP v2 Control Flow](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TZeZtxwPzAImIu8Jk_e-4otSx467Ckf0smNe7JbPReE/edit?resourcekey=0-lTeZGW_Ys78j1LU60CEARg#heading=h.x9snb54sjlu9)
   * Aggregation of parameters and artifacts in DAG or sub-DAG
   * Sub-DAG outputs (parameters and artifacts) can be inputs to the next sub-DAG

>    * Increase exit handler functionality with conditionals and sub-DAG options

Reviewer 4: Hello Josh, the KFPv2 is not planned for this release, therefore please remove the content here. 

The tracking bug for KFP 1.8 is here https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines/issues/6015
